[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What I see here is
a great opportunity.
And it's an opportunity to
move from an old linear model
to a new circular and
regenerative economy model.
We are the vanguard
of the transition.
And what we're here to do is
to facilitate the transition
to a new economy.
We are in the crossroad
and we have the chance
to change course towards a
greener and better and more
sustainable planet.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What is the world around us
made of and how does our economy
really work?
Everything we see and
touch was made somewhere
and it's made of materials
that come directly from nature
or have gone through
a certain process.
In the past decades,
we expanded our economy
to produce more
than ever before.
And in the last
years, we understood
the price of this expansion.
90% of raw materials
used in manufacturing
become waste before the
product leaves a factory.
80% of products get thrown
away in the first six
months of their existence.
There are billions
of dollars that
could be saved each year
with the implementation
of a new circular economy.
So is it true that we
have limited resources
or do we just need to
upgrade the way we deal
with our resources?
>> So right now, we are at
the brink of the collapse
of our natural environment.
If we don't change the way
we make and consume products,
we're going to radically change
the landscape of our Earth
and go on a straight line
towards the destruction
of our planet and ourselves.
I love the planet so much
that I want to see it thrive.
How can we create products
that not only live in harmony
with nature, which
is sustainability,
which is being neutral but how
can we regenerate the Earth?
How can we move
away from plastic
and how can we find
alternatives to plastic?
If we are destroying
the planet, I
realize we are destroying the
pure essence of who we are,
which is this collective being.
So that sparked the
idea of then creating
Pangea and the deep
meaning of Pangea,
which is the world being one.
Pangea, Pangaea means
"Everything Earth."
And it was a planet before
it split into continents.
So it's that
essence of the union
and the connection
with the planet
and creating something that
would benefit the Earth.
And using consumerism as a
way of benefiting the planet
rather than harming it.
>> What is exciting is that the
transformation that lies ahead
of us is a key step in our
evolution on planet Earth
as an advanced civilization.
Nature has had millions of
years to refine its processes.
In nature, everything develops
as a balanced ecosystem.
There are feedback loops built
into the way evolution works.
Look at animals in the savanna.
As lions become faster,
gazelle get a bit faster too.
If lions suddenly had access
to weapons and technology,
they would catch way
more gazelles than usual.
In that process, they would
risk running out of gazelles
and starve themselves
into extinction.
The human species has
found ways to climb
to the top of the food chain
through weapons and technology.
We are able to coordinate among
ourselves in a way that other
animals can't.
We are able to use innovation
to outsmart our environment.
These are the signs of
an advanced civilization.
But with great power comes
great responsibility.
And it's not about the
survival of our planet.
That's not at risk.
It's about our
survival on this planet
because in this
rapid evolution, we
have not managed yet to
create the feedback loop that
makes nature so resilient.
The ecosystem we depend
on has lost balance.
>> I grew up in Buenos
Aires, which is a huge city,
the capital of Argentina.
Since a very young age.
my father used to
take me camping.
I remember the first
time we went camping
is when I was four years old.
And each time we go to the
outdoors, to the mountains,
I always felt a big
connection to the planet
and a sense of peace.
So nature always had a very
special role in my life
throughout my childhood as a
place where I could feel peace
and I could get a little bit out
of the craziness of the city.
That deep connection I had with
nature and with the mountains
and with the oceans, I
wanted to explore more
when I finished high school.
I felt like it was pushing
everyone to do the same thing.
And I always felt like
I didn't want to follow
the steps of everyone else.
I wanted to find my own path.
And my own path was
taking me to the wild,
was taking me to go to the
outdoors and explore the planet.
The first trip I did when
I finished high school,
I packed my backpack with a
bunch of books, some clothes,
and I hitchhiked to Patagonia.
I took a year to
travel all the planet.
And I spent 12 months
traveling the five continents.
And in particular, I remember
once I was in Thailand
and I went snorkeling.
And there was a moment in which
I was floating in the ocean
and I felt a deep connection
with the whole planet.
In that feeling of unity with
the whole world, I realized,
myself, Marcos Bulacio,
whatever that means,
is actually part of
something bigger,
and that something bigger
is the whole planet.
So I felt a deep connection
with the ocean, the plants,
and everything around us.
And I realized that what we
truly are is the planet itself.
So then after that, I
traveled and I went to Bali.
I came to Bali for the first
time because I love surfing.
And I was surfing
and I found myself
paddling in an ocean
full of plastic.
And then that made me realize
that we must radically
change the way we make
and consume products,
or otherwise, we're
self-destroying ourselves.
>> Nature has already taught
us so many ways to innovate.
We have learned from
biological processes
how to produce better materials.
This is called biomimicry.
So if we look at mushrooms,
they are the recyclers
of materials in nature.
They break down
that organic matter
and turn it back into minerals.
A startup in California figured
out how to make mycelium
grow into new structures that
can be turned into batteries,
spaceships, trains, cars,
shoes, houses, kids' toys,
bulletproof vests, anything
made out of wood or robots.
They connected the
dots on something
that was always in
front of our eyes.
Mycelium was on the planet
since way before us humans.
Today, the
mushroom-based materials
are used by some of the
leading global brands.
They create all
kinds of materials
that replace plastic leather
and other unsustainable sources.
>> After that trip around
the world and having the idea
of creating Pangea,
at that moment,
it was something that was
going to be helping the planet.
I decided to start creating
products designed for traveling,
designed to solve the
problems of the nomads.
So I came up with the idea of
creating an alternative towel
that is going to be
made of bamboo, which
is a renewable and natural
resource that is actually
biodegradable.
So that at the end
of the life cycle,
instead of polluting the planet
forever with more microplastics,
it's actually going
to biodegrade.
Added this impact model in which
for every towel that we sold,
we're going to clean
one kilogram of trash
from the planet.
So I came to Bali.
I was staying in a hostel.
I had $2,000 in my bank account.
I was working also with
my co-founder, who was
in San Francisco at the moment.
After that trip
around the world,
I took a course, an incredible
program of entrepreneurship
and innovation at Harvard, then
the clear idea came to my mind.
I realized I need to--
I want to create
something that will
allow me to live in Bali
while making positive impact,
and that is connected
to the travel
industry for the backpackers.
And we decided to start
this travel brand together
while we were traveling
through South America.
In that trip, we also realized
that everywhere we went,
there was trash.
Every beach we go,
there is trash.
And that's something that I've
seen throughout all my travels.
So we decided to sell
products for other backpackers
and travelers like us
like we were back then.
And also started
organizing cleanups
and funding these initial
cleanups with those products.
Since the beginning,
when we started cleaning,
we got really,
really good volume.
We started organizing
cleanups all around the world,
collecting thousands of
kilograms of trash per month.
But then the next
question was what
do we do with all this trash?
And so that sparked the idea of
creating the Plastic Innovation
Center in Bali and being able
to turn 5,000 kilograms of trash
that we cleaned with a huge
cleanup that we organized
in the Philippines
with 1,500 volunteers,
into mangrove sunglasses that
were basically funding that
cleanup and then turning
the trash of the cleanup
into a valuable product.
>> Our next evolutionary step
as an advanced civilization is
to create balance in our
systems and in the way we use
our resources.
This is where the circular
economy comes into play.
A circular economy
is different from
our traditional linear economy,
where we take, make, and waste.
In a circular system,
there is no waste
because waste doesn't exist.
It's just materials
in the wrong place.
>> So to understand
circular economy, first,
we need to understand
linear economy.
So the current production model
all around the world is linear.
So it starts by extracting
natural resources
from the planet and
then creating products
that are designed to be
discarded at the end of the life
cycle.
So it's basically extracting
natural resources,
polluting the Earth,
and then discarding
planets that keep polluting
the Earth forever.
So circular economy means
making that linear process
or that linear model
circular, in a way
that we can keep re-utilizing
the plastic that was produced.
And so we can recycle
the existing plastic
into new products,
into a closed loop,
that instead of
polluting the Earth,
it actually goes back to
production over and over again.
And instead of designing
them to be discarded,
designing them to be recycled.
So we can keep recycling
the plastic that exists
over and over on a closed loop.
The first cleanup
was here in Bali
and it was just a
handful of people.
And as we progressed, then
instead of taking care of only
the surface problem,
the surface issue,
which is trash
sitting in the planet,
we realized and we learned that
80% of all the trash that enters
the oceans comes from
about 1,500 rivers.
So we started placing
river barriers
to stop the trash before
it enters the oceans.
And then we went
one step forward,
which is solving the
issue from the core, which
is the generation of new trash.
So right now, what
we're doing is
we are replacing products
that pollute the planet
with circular products that
are made from the waste,
from plastic that already exists
and designed to clean the Earth
and plant new trees.
It was just a handful of people.
And we grew the cleanups to a
global movement with more than
3,500 volunteers in 12
countries around the world.
>> 70% of the world's plastic
is not being recovered,
and that translates into
a hundred and twenty
billion-dollar loss
to the economy.
That is tangible
economic value from waste
that we are leaving
on the table.
This applies to all materials.
Look at what our
streets are made of.
Plastic is made of petroleum.
And asphalt is made
with petroleum, too.
Today, only 10% of the
annual 13 trillion tons
of disposed asphalt
are being recycled.
But this is starting to change.
The leading manufacturer
of roofing materials
in North America has found a
way to recycle 90% of asphalt
into new roofs.
So now that we know
this is possible,
who else is going to
follow their footsteps?
The next step ahead of us is to
recreate the feedback loops that
exist in nature by making
our supply chains transparent
and reconnecting with where
our products come from,
by seeing whether the
way they are produced
pollutes or
regenerates the Earth.
We have all the technology
we need to do this already.
>> Here is the river
barrier's trash.
So this is coming from Sumatra,
and they ship it to us here.
And here we have the ghost nets,
which is a new supply chain
that we're building.
So the first step is
going to be separate it,
get rid of different
types of rope
because, basically,
different types
of nets and different
types of rope
are different types of plastic.
So after washing the plastic,
we send it for shredding.
And this is how it comes
from the shredding machine.
So here, what we're
going to do as well
is we will mix the flakes
with an impact modifier, which
is a chemical
compound that is going
to make the plastic
much stronger
and increase the
flexibility as well.
And we mix our own plastic with
other recycled polypropylene
pellets that are post-consumer
plastic pellets from Java.
So then we prepare
the color formula.
So here, what we have is
the ocean blue sunglasses.
So for ocean blue,
what we have is
the mangrove plastic with
some post-consumer plastic
pellets as well.
And we have the impact
modifiers inside as well.
And that's what we're going
to use to inject the molds.
So these are the machines
that we imported from England.
And so what we do is we're
going to take the plastic
and add it into the
injection machine.
And this is going
to melt the plastic
and we're going to manually
inject it into the molds.
Our current state
is very handcrafted.
So what we're doing
is-- the first stage
is to clean the impurities
of the injection.
So we're going to get rid of
all these excess plastic parts.
Then we're going to
assemble the hinges.
So the hinges are
what's going to allow
us to put the frames
together with the temples.
And then we're going
to sand them to create
a very nice finishing.
And then finally, assemble
the lenses and wash them,
and they're ready to go.
So here we have a
finalized City design.
That's the design of this
frame in the seal-gray color.
So this is part of our
ocean guard campaign.
And this one now will
need some final cleaning
and it's going to be ready
to ship to our customers.
>> Over 50% of customers
investigate their brand's social
responsibility.
And over 60% of customers
want to purchase
from more sustainable brands.
A brand with real
purpose doesn't shy away
from doing things differently,
from giving us transparency,
and from connecting
with our deepest values.
As consumers of
products, we have all
heard before about how to
recycle or how to consume less,
but to align our lives with
making a positive impact,
we've got to walk that walk.
The biggest resource
we all have is what
we choose to put our time into.
So what if we all dare
to find a career that
is on purpose, a
career that aligns
with our natural interests?
That is the most powerful way we
have to make a real difference.
When it comes to the
circular economy,
there are endless opportunities,
both for new and old brands.
Innovation is a part of
the natural flow of life.
When we go with it,
when we sync up with it,
we become part of positive
change effortlessly.
Circularity is a mindset
and we can think circularity
across all parts of our lives.
>> I want to create a world
where my daughter can swim
in a plastic-free ocean and
where the new generation of kids
can still enjoy the
beauty of a clean beach.
And if we think
about the rivers,
the rivers are the veins of our
planet, the veins of our ocean,
and they are currently
being clogged with plastic.
I do what I do because
I want my daughter
and all the children
of the world to one day
swim in a plastic-free ocean.
I hope that by changing the way
we make and produce and consume
products, we can switch
from a model that
is destructive to a model
that is regenerative
so that we can help our planet.
[MUSIC PLAYING]